---
layout: post
title:  "Episode 1: Survey for the needs of potential users"
img: 01-cover.png 
categories:
---

With our first episode we intent to get feedback form potential users from experimental mechanics and computational engineering of our project idea. 
Therefore, we interviewed three of our colleagues: Tanja Pelzmann, Antonio Castro Moreno, and  [Yahya Abderrafai](https://twitter.com/lussylver) to get their opinion
of our idea and evaluate if there is need for such a platform in both communities. 

### Content

We asked them following questions

* Please introduce yourself and your research
* Do you use experimental data in your research?
* Did you ever need to acquire or get experimental results?
* Did you ever need to contact someone to get their raw experimental results ? How did it go ?
* What features should the platform have ?

### Conclusion

* General it is difficult to contact authors and get more details about the experiment. Mostly they did not reply or the 
provided contact address bounced. 
* A classification by experiment or material is necessary to navigate data easily.
* A README with a description of the data, like on github, should be provided with the organization of data to make the data useful and interpretive.
* Storage of the data is still a problem, because most data is lost when a student leaves the institution.
* Provide a standardized file format for the data sets.

### Remarks

* Tanja mentioned that a data management plan is obligatory for all public funded projects in Austria. It would be great when it would be necessary for
all projects, but it is only necessary for some projects.
### References

* [Austria Open Data Portal](https://www.opendataportal.at/)
* [Source code of the plattform](https://github.com/OpenDataExpMechanics/platform)
